Add telemetry docs (#3062)
pingcap/docs: telemetry.md

---

> title: Telemetry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Telemetry
summary: Learn the telemetry feature, how to disable, reset, and view the status of this feature.
```

Author: How about:

```suggestion
title: Telemetry
summary: Learn details about the telemetry collection and how to opt out of the feature.
```

category: reference
---

# Telemetry

> By default, TiDB, TiUP and TiDB Dashboard collect usage information and share it with PingCAP to help understand how to improve the product. For example, this usage information helps to prioritize new features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, TiDB, TiUP and, TiDB Dashboard collect usage information and share the information with PingCAP to help understand how to improve the product. For example, this usage information helps PingCAP learn the common user operations on TiDB to prioritize new features.
```

## What gets shared?

> The followings describe shared usage information in detail for each component. The details that get shared may change over time. The changes will be announced in release notes if that happens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections describe the shared usage information in detail for each component. The usage details that get shared might change over time. These changes (if any) will be announced in [release notes](/releases/release-notes.md).
```

> **Note:**
>

> > **In all cases**, data stored in the cluster by users will **not** be shared. You may also refer to [PingCAP Privacy Policy](https://pingcap.com/privacy-policy/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In **ALL** cases, user data stored in the TiDB cluster will **NOT** be shared. You can also refer to [PingCAP Privacy Policy](https://pingcap.com/privacy-policy).
```

### TiDB

> When TiDB telemetry collection is enabled, the TiDB cluster will collect usage details on an daily basis, including (but not limited to):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiDB, the TiDB cluster collects usage details on a daily basis. These usage details include but are not limited to:
```

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.

> - Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware (CPU, memory, disk), TiDB components versions, OS name, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware (CPU, memory, disk), TiDB components versions, OS name.
```

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, execute the following SQL statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY;
```

### TiDB Dashboard

> When TiDB Dashboard telemetry collection is enabled, user operations to TiDB Dashboard web UI will be shared, including (but not limited to):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiDB Dashboard, user operations on the TiDB Dashboard web UI will be shared, including (but not limited to):
```

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.

> - User operation information, such as the name of the TiDB Dashboard web page user accessed, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- User operation information, such as the name of the TiDB Dashboard web page accessed by the user.
```

> - Browser and OS information, such as browser name, OS name, screen resolution, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Browser and OS information, such as browser name, OS name, screen resolution.
```

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, use the [Network Activity Inspector of Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network) or the [Network Monitor of Firefox Developer Tools](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Network_Monitor).

### TiUP

> When TiUP telemetry collection is enabled, user operations to TiUP will be shared, including (but not limited to):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiUP, user operations with TiUP will be shared, including (but not limited to):
```

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.

> - Command execution status, such as whether execution is successful, execution duration, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Execution status of TiUP commands, such as whether the execution is successful and the execution duration.
```

> - Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware, TiDB components versions, deployment configuration names that have been modified, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware, TiDB components versions, deployment configuration names that have been modified.
```

> To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, set `TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable` environment variable when executing the TiUP command, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, set the `TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable` environment variable when executing the TiUP command. For example:
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable tiup cluster list
```

> ## Opt out telemetry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Disable telemetry
```

> ### Opt out TiDB telemetry at deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Disable TiDB telemetry at deployment
```

> When deploying TiDB clusters, configure [`enable-telemetry = false`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) for all TiDB instances to opt out the TiDB telemetry collection. Deployed TiDB clusters also respect this configuration item but a restart is needed to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying TiDB clusters, configure [`enable-telemetry = false`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) to disable the TiDB telemetry collection on all TiDB instances. You can also use this setting to disable telemetry in the deployed TiDB clusters, which do not take effect until you restart the clusters.
```

> Detailed configure steps for different deployment tools are listed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detailed steps to disable telemetry in different deployment tools are listed below.
```

</details>

### Opt out TiUP telemetry

To opt out the TiUP telemetry collection, execute the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup telemetry disable
```

## Check telemetry status

For TiDB telemetry, execute the following SQL statement to check the telemetry status:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY;
```

If the `DATA_PREVIEW` column is empty, TiDB telemetry is off. If not, TiDB telemetry is on. You can also check when the usage information was shared previously according to the `LAST_STATUS` column.

For TiUP telemetry, execute the following command to check the telemetry status:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup telemetry status
```

## Compliance

In order to meet compliance requirements in different countries or regions, the usage information will be sent to servers located in different countries according to the IP address of the sender machine as follows:

- For IP addresses from mainland China, usage information will be sent and stored on cloud servers in mainland China.
- For IP addresses other than mainland China, usage information will be sent and stored on cloud servers in US.

> See [PingCAP Privacy Policy](https://pingcap.com/privacy-policy/) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [PingCAP Privacy Policy](https://pingcap.com/privacy-policy) for details.
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable tiup cluster list
```

## Disable telemetry

### Disable TiDB telemetry at deployment

When deploying TiDB clusters, configure [`enable-telemetry = false`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) to disable the TiDB telemetry collection on all TiDB instances. You can also use this setting to disable telemetry in the deployed TiDB clusters, which do not take effect until you restart the clusters.

Detailed steps to disable telemetry in different deployment tools are listed below.

<details>
  <summary>Binary deployment</summary>

Create a configuration file `tidb_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
enable-telemetry = false
```

Specify the command line parameter `--config=tidb_config.toml` when starting TiDB to take effect.

See [TiDB Configuration Options](/command-line-flags-for-tidb-configuration.md#--config) and [TiDB Configuration File](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) for details.

</details>

<details>

>   <summary>TiUP Playground</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Playground</summary>
```

Create a configuration file `tidb_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
enable-telemetry = false
```

When starting TiUP Playground, specify the command line parameter `--db.config tidb_config.toml` to take effect, for example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup playground --db.config tidb_config.toml
```

See [Quickly Deploy a Local TiDB Cluster](/tiup/tiup-playground.md) for details.

</details>

<details>

>   <summary>TiUP Cluster deployment</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Cluster</summary>
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Kubernetes deployment via TiDB Operator</summary>

Configure `spec.tidb.config.enable-telemetry: false` in `tidb-cluster.yaml` or TidbCluster Custom Resource.

See [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/deploy-tidb-operator) for details.

</details>

### Disable TiDB telemetry for deployed TiDB clusters

For deployed TiDB clusters, you can also modify the system variable [`tidb_enable_telemetry`](/tidb-specific-system-variables.md#tidb_enable_telemetry) to dynamically disable the TiDB telemetry collection:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_telemetry = 0;
```

Note that disabling by configuration files takes precedence over system variables. That is, when telemetry collection is disabled by configuration files, the value of the system variable will be ignored.

### Disable TiDB Dashboard telemetry

Configure [`dashboard.disable-telemetry = true`](/pd-configuration-file.md#disable-telemetry) for all PD instances to disable the TiDB Dashboard telemetry collection. Running clusters need to be restarted to take effect.

> Detailed configure steps for different deployment tools are listed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detailed steps to disable telemetry for different deployment tools are listed below.
```

<details>
  <summary>Binary deployment</summary>

Create a configuration file `pd_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[dashboard]
disable-telemetry = true
```

> Specify the command line parameter `--config=pd_config.toml` when starting PD to take effect.

Reviewer: See comment for Line 79.

See [PD Configuration Flags](/command-line-flags-for-pd-configuration.md#--config) and [PD Configuration File](/pd-configuration-file.md#disable-telemetry) for details.

</details>

<details>

>   <summary>TiUP Playground</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Playground</summary>
```

Create a configuration file `pd_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[dashboard]
disable-telemetry = true
```

> When starting TiUP Playground, specify the command line parameter `--pd.config pd_config.toml` to take effect, for example:

Reviewer: See comment for Line 79.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup playground --pd.config pd_config.toml
```

See [Quickly Deploy a Local TiDB Cluster](/tiup/tiup-playground.md) for details.

</details>

<details>

>   <summary>TiUP Cluster deployment</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Cluster</summary>
```

> Modify the deployment topology file `topology.yaml` to add or modify the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the deployment topology file `topology.yaml` to add the following content:
```

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
server_configs:
  pd:
    dashboard.disable-telemetry: true
```

</details>

<details>

>   <summary>Ansible deployment</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <summary>Deployment using TiDB Ansible</summary>
```

> Locate the following contents in the configuration file `tidb-ansible/conf/pd.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Locate the following content in the `tidb-ansible/conf/pd.yml` configuration file:
```

```yaml
dashboard:
  ...
  # disable-telemetry: false
```

> And change to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And change the content as follows:
```

```yaml
dashboard:
  ...
  disable-telemetry: true
```

See [Deploy TiDB Using TiDB Ansible](/online-deployment-using-ansible.md) for details.

</details>

<details>

>   <summary>Kubernetes deployment via TiDB Operator</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <summary>Deployment in Kubernetes via TiDB Operator</summary>
```

Configure `spec.pd.config.dashboard.disable-telemetry: true` in `tidb-cluster.yaml` or TidbCluster Custom Resource.

See [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/deploy-tidb-operator) for details.

</details>

### Disable TiUP telemetry

To disable the TiUP telemetry collection, execute the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup telemetry disable
```

## Check telemetry status

For TiDB telemetry, execute the following SQL statement to check the telemetry status:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY;
```

> If the `DATA_PREVIEW` column is empty, TiDB telemetry is off. If not, TiDB telemetry is on. You can also check when the usage information was shared previously according to the `LAST_STATUS` column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `DATA_PREVIEW` column in the execution result is empty, TiDB telemetry is disabled. If not, TiDB telemetry is enabled. You can also check when the usage information was shared previously according to the `LAST_STATUS` column and whether the sharing was successful or not.
```

For TiUP telemetry, execute the following command to check the telemetry status:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup telemetry status
```

## Compliance

> In order to meet compliance requirements in different countries or regions, the usage information will be sent to servers located in different countries according to the IP address of the sender machine as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To meet compliance requirements in different countries or regions, the usage information is sent to servers located in different countries according to the IP address of the sender machine:
```

> - For IP addresses from mainland China, usage information will be sent and stored on cloud servers in mainland China.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For IP addresses from the Chinese mainland, usage information is sent to and stored on cloud servers in the Chinese mainland.
```

> - For IP addresses other than mainland China, usage information will be sent and stored on cloud servers in US.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For IP addresses from outside of the Chinese mainland, usage information is sent to and stored on cloud servers in the US.
```

---
title: Telemetry

> summary: Learn the telemetry feature, how to disable and view the status of this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn the telemetry feature, how to disable the feature and view its status.
```

category: reference
---

# Telemetry

> By default, TiDB, TiUP and TiDB Dashboard collect usage information and share the information with PingCAP to help understand how to improve the product. For example, this usage information helps to prioritize new features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, TiDB, TiUP and TiDB Dashboard collect usage information and share the information with PingCAP to help understand how to improve the product. For example, this usage information helps prioritize new features.
```

> ## What gets shared?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is shared?
```

The following sections describe the shared usage information in detail for each component. The usage details that get shared might change over time. These changes (if any) will be announced in [release notes](/releases/release-notes.md).

> **Note:**
>
> In **ALL** cases, user data stored in the TiDB cluster will **NOT** be shared. You can also refer to [PingCAP Privacy Policy](https://pingcap.com/privacy-policy).

### TiDB

When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiDB, the TiDB cluster collects usage details on a daily basis. These usage details include but are not limited to:

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.
- Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware (CPU, memory, disk), TiDB components versions, OS name.

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, execute the following SQL statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY;
```

### TiDB Dashboard

> When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiDB Dashboard, user operations on the TiDB Dashboard web UI will be shared, including (but not limited to):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiDB Dashboard, usage information on the TiDB Dashboard web UI will be shared, including (but not limited to):
```

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.
- User operation information, such as the name of the TiDB Dashboard web page accessed by the user.

> - Browser and OS information, such as browser name, OS name, screen resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Browser and OS information, such as browser name, OS name, and screen resolution.
```

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, use the [Network Activity Inspector of Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network) or the [Network Monitor of Firefox Developer Tools](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Network_Monitor).

### TiUP

When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiUP, user operations with TiUP will be shared, including (but not limited to):

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.
- Execution status of TiUP commands, such as whether the execution is successful and the execution duration.

> - Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware, TiDB components versions, deployment configuration names that have been modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware, TiDB components versions, and deployment configuration names that have been modified.
```

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, set the `TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable` environment variable when executing the TiUP command. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable tiup cluster list
```

## Disable telemetry

### Disable TiDB telemetry at deployment

> When deploying TiDB clusters, configure [`enable-telemetry = false`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) to disable the TiDB telemetry collection on all TiDB instances. You can also use this setting to disable telemetry in the deployed TiDB clusters, which do not take effect until you restart the clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying TiDB clusters, configure [`enable-telemetry = false`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) to disable the TiDB telemetry collection on all TiDB instances. You can also use this setting to disable telemetry in an existing TiDB cluster, which does not take effect until you restart the cluster.
```

<details>
  <summary>Binary deployment</summary>

Create a configuration file `tidb_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
enable-telemetry = false
```

Specify the `--config=tidb_config.toml` command-line parameter when starting TiDB for the configuration file above to take effect.

See [TiDB Configuration Options](/command-line-flags-for-tidb-configuration.md#--config) and [TiDB Configuration File](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Playground</summary>

Create a configuration file `tidb_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
enable-telemetry = false
```

When starting TiUP Playground, specify the `--db.config tidb_config.toml` command-line parameter for the configuration file above to take effect. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup playground --db.config tidb_config.toml
```

See [Quickly Deploy a Local TiDB Cluster](/tiup/tiup-playground.md) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Cluster</summary>

> Modify the deployment topology file `topology.yaml` to add content as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the deployment topology file `topology.yaml` to add the following content:
```

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
server_configs:
  tidb:
    enable-telemetry: false
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiDB Ansible</summary>

Locate the following contents in the configuration file `tidb-ansible/conf/tidb.yml`:

```yaml
# enable-telemetry: true
```

And change this content as follow:

```yaml
enable-telemetry: false
```

See [Deploy TiDB Using TiDB Ansible](/online-deployment-using-ansible.md) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment in Kubernetes via TiDB Operator</summary>

Configure `spec.tidb.config.enable-telemetry: false` in `tidb-cluster.yaml` or TidbCluster Custom Resource.

See [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/deploy-tidb-operator) for details.

</details>

### Disable TiDB telemetry for deployed TiDB clusters

> For deployed TiDB clusters, you can also modify the system variable [`tidb_enable_telemetry`](/tidb-specific-system-variables.md#tidb_enable_telemetry) to dynamically disable the TiDB telemetry collection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In existing TiDB clusters, you can also modify the system variable [`tidb_enable_telemetry`](/tidb-specific-system-variables.md#tidb_enable_telemetry) to dynamically disable the TiDB telemetry collection:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_telemetry = 0;
```

> **Note:**
>

> > When you disable telemetry, using configuration files has higher priority over using system variables. That is, after telemetry collection is disabled by configuration files, the value of the system variable will be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When you disable telemetry, the configuration file has a higher priority over system variable. That is, after telemetry collection is disabled by the configuration file, the value of the system variable will be ignored.
```
